I'd like to welcome Sean connley uh to
this conversation about muscular
hypertrophy strength and uh some testing
that has been done by his rehab group
he's a doctor of physical therapy and is
spends most of his time in Michigan tell
us what you have found right awesome
thanks for having me first of all there
John been been a lot of fun work on the
study but uh so recently I just
conducted a study looking at your
initial strength training protocol using
the X3 um I wanted to compare it to some
other protocols that have been out for
years um so the ACSM is one of the big
ones that I used you know they do the
whole three to five set 10 to 12 rep 70
to 80% one rep max 8 to 10 exercises a
day kind of thing just to be clear um
the sort of recommended American College
of sports medicine programming yeah uh
they they IAL sort of this is what you
should do for muscular
hypertrophy and how many sets per
workout is there recommendation and how
many workouts per week yeah it's it's
lofty um which was 6% of Americans age
18 and over actually meet the
recommendations for strength training
and part of it is probably because it's
very lofty so it's three to five sets of
10 to 12
repetitions um you using 70 to 80% of
your one rep max for 8 to 10 different
exercises 3 to four days a week is their
kind of their traditional recommendation
three to five sets per workout or is
that per exercise per exercise how many
exercises per workout eight to 10 oh so
dozens of sets dozens of sets per
workout yeah and then uh
um that could be like 70 sets per
workout like two hours of work per day
how many days a week three to four that
makes some sense just standard
weightlifting and then in your study
what did you compare it to so I did the
traditional ACSM protocol um I wanted a
few different protocols so another one
that I used was Mike menor's Proto you
he do a lot of one set to complete
failure kind of stuff and then the
traditional X3 protocol that you made
you know a few years ago when you when
you created the X3 using variable
resistance which are uh very high
quality heavy duty latex bands to you
know put a lot more strain on muscle
tissue compared to joints um and so my
big thing as a a
doctor one is that I like to work out I
don't have time I see patients all day
long I'm a coach I'm a trainer for a
professional team in Detroit for a
semi-professional team in Detroit um I'm
a professor I'm running a business I'm a
clinic owner Clinic director I I don't
have time so I you know me personally
I'm looking for something that I could
do 10 15 minutes a day and get really
good results and the old go to the gym
for two hours a day
thing couldn't do it anymore and so yeah
I'm scrolling through Facebook one day I
see your book you know weightlifting is
a waste of time of course that piques my
interest with my background let's see
what this guy has to say so you know
Rend your book probably I think in a day
and just very well written a lot of good
high quality research studies you had in
there I reached out to your company and
you and I want to do a study I want to
compare this I want to see if and no
offense I want to see if this guy just
full of it or you know if you talking
about okay I I mean there's a lot of
people who want to see if I'm full of it
I appreciate the fact that you actually
put it to the test because a lot of
people smart people put it to the test
stupid people people jump to conclusions
usually wrong I'm glad you you wanted to
run the test and uh in this study I
provided the equipment we recommend and
that was it he provided some X3 and and
for my patience one of the main things
that I hear you know for the past I've
done a lot of stuff I'm a a strength and
conditioning specialist exercise
specialist exercise
physiologist doctor personal trainer
they're the main excuse over and over
and over again is I just don't have time
and I talk to my patients hey I gave you
a couple exercise to do at home did you
do them N I just didn't have time for it
my questions
mostly are going to be between so the
the Mike mener protocol you know with
the just the one set to failure with
standard weightlifting I know how that
went I mean mostly because I read your
paper but the most interesting thing to
the audience is comparing the high
volume regular weightlifting program
that the American College of Sports and
Medicine recommends compared to the
standard
X3 program which is only 10 minutes per
day six days a week on fifth of the
amount of time yeah that the ACSM
protocol requires mean that was huge so
we looked at uh myself and I had someone
helping me who did a lot of the analysis
of the data just that just want to give
a shout out to her thanks a lot Mary
Beth really appreciate it so I measured
muscle hypertrophy um I measured
strength and I measured body fat
percentage you know the three main
things that people starting an exercise
program want to improve you know people
want to lose fat they want to gain
strength they want to build muscle so
that's the the main things we measured
oh ACS so we'll do it one at a time ACSM
versus X3 who had the better body
composition I improvements so those were
all fairly close um when we looked at
all the numbers all the data we had the
you know the traditional X3 group and
then the traditional ACSM group and
measuring body fat strength hypertrophy
all that fun stuff we found that there
was really no statistically significant
difference between the three other than
the X3 edged out people on uh the
strength and the muscle hypertrophy in
certain muscle groups the bicep was one
of them
um double check I believe the chest was
another one where the X3 actually hedged
everyone out so you know they they Edge
people out on a few but not a huge
difference that the traditional ACSM
protocol the average time that it took
people was about 90 minutes a day about
an hour and a half you know three days a
week they had to drive to the gym they
had to use the weights they weren't
allowed to use machines because I wanted
you know I wanted the instability so
they had to use free weights they had
depending on where they were 30 45
minute drive to the gym then they had to
drive home they had an hour and a half
at the gym you're looking at a good
chunk ofier day that you're just going
to the gym and the huge difference with
the study was that the X3 group average
time 10 minutes a day same result same
strength same hypertrophy well better
results actually much more efficient
much more effective I've been talking to
Dr Milo wolf you know him he talks about
the lengthened partials in fact as
scientists go I would probably call him
the lengthened partial guy he's gonna
have more answers than anybody else
because he's just reading about it the
most and he's conducted a lot of
research on it and out raising money for
uh funding for projects on length and
partials uh one of the last papers he
was involved with talked about
lengthened suets and there was a lot of
growth associated with these lengthened
suets more than with the standard uh set
of weight training the drawback with
length and super sets is they're kind of
hard to do because once you go to
failure full range you're kind of done
with a regular weight but he did the
study with um the researchers the rest
of them like I I want to take credit
away from anybody uh so in that study
they talked about how with the calves
you can continue doing shorter
repetitions even if you've gone to full
range fatigue so the calvs are sort of
unique in that so he did a lot of reps
in the stretched range of motion after
fatigue that's why he calls it a
lengthened super set because it's a full
range of motion set and then once you go
to fatigue then you do the shorter reps
just in that
stretched portion of the movement but
that's how every single X3 set works
with diminishing range yeah and so I
think these big hypertrophy differences
like we've always seen incredible muscle
growth with X3 and now I knew When
developing the product okay everybody's
going to get a lot stronger because of
variable resistance just going to
fatigue with variable resistance
stimulates a lot more strength the
hypertrophy there there wasn't lot of
research out there when I started
X3 on specifically
that and I think because as we go to
fatigue and those those that don't know
what I'm talking about when you go to
fatigue with diminishing range length
and partial so I'm doing however many
repetitions I can do and then when I
can't get there I do like a three quter
rep and I might do a few of those and
then I can't get there anymore and then
I'm doing an even shorter repetition and
finally I go to fatigue maybe five times
five different points diminishing back
until my last repetition is maybe an
inch and that's how every X3 set works I
think that really has a lot to do with
that added growth even with the lower
exercise time the lower amount of
exercise volume yeah that we use with X3
really exciting we're launching a
hypertrophy program basically the volume
of the ACSM program not not quite as
high because with variable resistance
it's very taxing like you get exhausted
real quick so it's not nearly that
amount of volume but it there's more
volume than the standard X3 program and
the priority is large muscle growth
large growth of all muscles including
the small ones yeah I look forward to
reading that one too yeah man well I I
really appreciate this analysis you did
and you presented it at the ACSM annual
Congress correct yep yeah am hoping to
apply and present in a couple more proud
of you man of course mine were mostly
having to do with bone density repr
presented at the World Congress on
osteoporosis and muscular skeletal
disease that was fun did you get any
like really off-the-wall questions from
other researchers people are bands can't
do that because most people you know PT
we think of bands we think the little
teeny tiny theeran yeah thean yeah pound
resistance it's like two pounds right
yeah and then you bust out the you your
big Elite band that's 600 pounds
resistance okay so I can see how that's
different it's like 800 pounds if you're
tall because it stretches further and
there's more resistance there 10 minutes
a day compared to 90 everybody has 10
minutes well this is great thank you so
much and uh as you present it we'll do
another one of these and uh maybe you
you know you get some amazing questions
and uh we can design another study and
and uh so run an analysis again yeah
yeah it'd be awesome happy to help
anything anything I can do to help you
guys out spread the word you want to do
any more of these on different subjects
let me know I'm open thanks Sean